# babylon-mood-ring

The Babylon Mood Ring website randomizes lines from a poem called "Frozen Custard in the City of Babylon," I wrote about one decade ago. Here, I've formatted the poem to scramble the linear sequencing of its original form in favor of a more dynamic and interactive reading experience. By revealing lines at different screen coordinates and shifting colors, the site extends the poem's thematic focus on memory, nostalgia, and selfhood -- each as fractured and amorphous threads of the present moment. Sampling random verses and styling text in accordance with changing states of mood and affect formally mimics the impermanence and randomness of memories long past.

Inspiration for the project draws from Kenneth Goldsmith's notion of "uncreative writing," which challenges traditional notions of originality and points to acts of selection, appropriation, combination, and context as more  forms of creation in our mature digital age. The website's mechanism of selecting lines at random puts this approach to work, presenting verses without a fixed order or structure to opens the possibility for new meanings and interpretations on the point of readers that include myself. 

The approach also aligns with "stochastic poetics,” an approach where randomness and probability play significant roles in the creation and interpretation of a artistic piece. The unpredictable, algorithmically randomized presentation of lines builds on this framework to engage with the amorphousness of memory and the various ways our past can manifest in the present as if at random.  
